That's me.
HIToolbox, well,
HIView is probably the most important
technology in the HIToolbox these days.
If you're going to deploy an application
on Mac OS X that is using HIToolbox,
you need to know about HIView.
Over the past few years,
we've been laying this foundation.
Carbon Events was like
the first big milestone,
and we had this nice messaging system.
On top of that now, we have HIView.
And in Panther,
we finished that transition,
so now that HIViews are pervasive.
For this reason,
everything we do going forward
is going to involve HIView
in some form or another.
So it's important that
you learn about it.
If you're not ready to
adopt it right this second,
that's okay,
but please learn about it and
understand it and try to figure
out how it's going to work,
how you're going to end up adopting it
into your applications in the future.
What this session is going to be
is a quick overview of HIView.
We're just going to fly
through some of the basics.
We're going to learn how to use it,
how you turn it on, what makes it go.
We'll also talk about how
to write a custom view.
What does it take?
And it turns out it's pretty easy.
And along the way,
we'll touch on performance things,
ways you can make your views perform
really well in the HIView model.
So HIView is a complete replacement
for the control manager.
Technically, though,
we always throw around these terms,
HIView, controls, what's the relation?
HIViews are controls,
controls are HIViews by and large.
HIView is kind of a subset
of the old control manager,
and it allows controls
to work in this new mode,
which we call composited mode.
And it is, quite honestly,
the best thing to hit the toolbox since,
I don't know, OS types, I don't know,
making stuff up.
So, it's important that you really
understand the relation between the two.
So, if you were to look in HIView.h,
you'd see that, you know,
not everything that was in the
control manager is in there.
Well, that's because we, you know,
we haven't finished moving
everything over there yet.
But it is perfectly legal to call
control manager calls on HIViews.
There are some exceptions,
and we're attempting to document those in
the header in the controls.h right now.
Also understand, as I mentioned,
we're now pervasive with these views.
We use them everywhere.
So this is great for you guys
because you can learn one system,
one way to write a view,
and you can deploy it in menus, windows,
and as a control, obviously.
This is a modern view system.
It uses all the latest technology.
Basically, we draw using Quartz,
use floating-point coordinates,
we support overlapping views,
which is really cool, and as a Panther,
we support layout facilities,
which we kind of touched on
in the HI Toolbox session.
So first let's talk
about composited drawing.
What does that mean?
What it means is you have
a predictable way to draw.
That doesn't involve
erasing behind oneself.
The old control manager would
always erase behind itself
before it redrew the control.
This has happened back since 1984.
It's always been that way.
Couldn't exactly change it until now.
Now we have a composited drawing system.
We draw everything back to front,
and we also obey all of the
Z-ordering among siblings,
which gives us the
ability to overlap views,
as I mentioned.
Since we don't do a race behind,
you don't have to worry about
pattern alignment problems,
all that stuff.
It's just gone.
You don't have to worry about it.
And drawing always occurs
at a very specific time,
and that's at event loop time.
So right before we would go and
flush your Windows contents,
we actually would repaint all
invalid areas of the view system.
So speaking of invalidation, what is it?
So essentially, as your views decide that
they need to be redrawn,
they will mark themselves invalid.
The toolbox will only mark things
invalid if you move a view,
if you resize a view,
or if you show a view.
Other than that, it's all up to you.
For resizing, we do have a special
event that we send out.
K event, K control, it must be K event,
control invalidate for size change.
This event will, as I mentioned,
will get sent out during
a resize operation.
So you might have a
control that knows that,
well, my top left area always
kind of stays constant.
So if I'm growing,
I only need to paint like that inverse
L area that's just been revealed.
And conversely,
as the thing is shrinking,
you might decide you don't
need to redraw at all.
But it's really important to
know that you have to invalidate.
It's your views.
It's totally up to your view to
invalidate when it's appropriate.
So, and this means things
even like value change,
activate, deactivate, highlight.
We don't know if that means
anything to your control,
so it's up to you to
tell us by invalidating.
An important note is that invalidating a
parent does not invalidate the children.
This may seem strange,
but it's that way for
performance reasons.
And I won't go into the details.
I can bore you with that some other time.
But it's really important to keep
that in mind while you're using this.
The two APIs that you use are
HIView Set Needs Display and
HIView Set Needs Display in Region.
And the second call is to
be a lot more specific about
what you want to get redrawn.
If you have a very complex control,
this call will be your friend because
essentially you just want to invalidate
some small part of your complex control.
So in the realm of geometry,
we have new types-- HIPoint, HIRECT,
HISize.
And these are essentially
just typedefs of the CG types.
But we kind of renamed them to
kind of fit into our namespace
and also to imply something else,
which I'll get into in a little bit.
All of the APIs that we have
are in terms of these new types.
The only legacy quick draw type
that you'll ever see in our
API are region handles right now.
And eventually,
those will be replaced by H-I shape refs.
There are two coordinate
systems for every view:
frame and bounds.
The frame is where you
live inside your parent,
expressing your parent's
local coordinate system.
Your bounds is your
Whenever you're moving
or resizing your view,
it's always done in frame coordinates.
Whenever you're doing stuff
internal to your view,
hit testing, drawing,
it's always in your bounds coordinates.
And it's just important to
always keep that in mind.
The great thing about having a local
coordinate system is obviously all
of the rectangles are local to you.
If you get moved or resized
or any of that stuff,
you can pretty much not have to recompute
all these rectangles all the time.
So it allows you to cache things.
It's pretty cool.
So, a quick visual example:
you have a button inside a group box.
Its bounds are 0, 0 to 120.
This is very different from
the old control manager way,
where it always lived
in port coordinates,
which was not always fun.
So now you have your
local coordinate system.
It's great.
Its frame is where it
lives in its parent,
as I mentioned.
So in this case,
it might be 30 pixels down and to the
right from the top left of the group box.
Okay.
There are two ways to draw in HIView:
Quartz and Quickdraw.
Quartz is obviously the native
drawing model for Mac OS X.
Have we said that enough?
It's got all types of cool--I
think it's one of the coolest
features of Mac OS X myself.
It's got all types of cool things:
transparency, anti-aliasing,
Bayesia curves, really cool stuff.
And all of our drawing internally
is actually done through Quartz.
We also fully support Quickdraw, though.
If you have your code,
it's probably likely
all in Quickdraw code.
You can migrate that very easily.
That's one issue though.
Quartz has a lower left origin.
We don't.
We use top left origin.
And this is the other reason for
having a redefined type space.
So when you see an
HI point or an HI rect,
you know that this is in terms
of top left coordinate system.
So it's a signal to you to know
which kind of orientation we're in.
So, ultimately,
we've transformed the context
that we deal with and that we
give to you whenever you draw.
We put zero,
zero at the top left where it rightfully
belongs and where you're really used to.
We have an old joke.
I won't go into it.
I won't make friends.
So this is important because
our windowing system has
always been top left based.
And of course all your existing
code is top left based,
and we don't want to throw that
away or have you flip rectangles
for the rest of your life.
We just want you to take your code
and be able to migrate it easily.
It also saves us from
things like window resize.
If we had a bottom left origin
when you resize the window,
essentially all your frames are
changing throughout the window,
and that's kind of a
big pain in the neck.
So we wanted to avoid all that.
But you've got to realize that
you're basically drawing upside down.
And if you get a context from us,
and you call--
CGContext DrawImage,
you'll find it out quite apparently.
So to help you with that,
we have helper APIs to deal with it.
First is HIView DrawCGImage.
That will take the image and
render it in the appropriate way.
And we also have HITHemeDrawText.
This is the Panther version
of DrawThemeTextBox,
which also will draw in
the correct orientation.
Only H-I-Theme draw text.
It's much faster, so use it.
So essentially these
APIs just take the context,
flip it, draw, and flip it back.
And flipping it is only a matter
of a couple lines of code.
I don't have an example
of showing you that,
but it's really easy to do.
The next issue, or the next solution,
really, is that of layout.
So one of the big pains we've
always had is being able to
layout all of your controls,
and you always have to do that manually.
You have to listen to balance changes,
events, and move everything around,
and it's a lot of code.
We wanted to eliminate that, okay?
So, we have layout facilities.
I'll kind of show this in
the HI Toolbox session.
So what we have here is an automatic
way to position or size any of
your views in your window based
on any other view in your window.
They do not have to be next to it.
It doesn't have to just be your parent.
It could be any view in the window.
Theoretically, we were talking earlier,
theoretically you could
base this across windows.
It'd be crazy, but hey, have fun.
So there are multiple ways to do this.
You have bindings, positions,
and scalings.
We'll touch on those as we
go forward a little bit.
So, as I mentioned,
you can do it with any other view.
And the way you actually go about this,
the mechanics are a couple of APIs:
HIView get layout info and
HIView set layout info.
So typically the code flow would be
get the layout info that's there,
you know, twiddle your bits,
and reset it.
But just setting a layout doesn't
actually make the layout reflow.
If you want that to happen immediately,
use HIView ApplyLayout.
What we would do otherwise is
just wait for a balance change
event to happen on the original
view that you're relating to,
and then we would make
everything go online.
This is kind of analogous to if you
selected a whole bunch of objects in
some drawing program and then said,
you know, "Align left," and
everything would align left.
Well, the selection is like
creating the bindings,
and then saying "Align left"
is like calling ApplyLayout.
So a little code to show how to do this.
It's pretty simple.
Again, you just get the layout info.
Set some settings, and then you set it.
In this case, what we're doing is
we're setting bindings.
So bindings are kind of like
the power plant bindings,
where you essentially bind an edge of
your view to the edge of some other view.
In this case,
we're binding the left and the
right of our view to our parent.
And you can indicate parent
by just passing null in the to
view field of the structure.
And in this case,
what would happen is as the
window resized horizontally,
your view would resize horizontally.
The next type of positioning
we support is scaling.
In this specific example,
what we're doing is we're taking,
as we are scaling to 50% of our
parent view's horizontal distance.
So, whatever width my parent is,
I'm going to be half that.
You can also use this in cool ways,
because often times you might have
a view that embeds a second view,
and the second view is actually
exactly as big as the first view.
I was doing this the other week, in fact.
And what you can do is you can
just use this and just say,
"I'm 100% of my parent." And you
can do that in both axes,
X and Y, so width and height.
And it just automatically
lays out all the,
yeah, stuff, things.
All right.
Position is the next one.
Position you can really
think of as alignment.
In this specific example,
what we're going to do is we're going to
position ourselves centered horizontally
to some view that happens to be above me,
like literally above you.
And this is all great
code and it's wonderful,
but why don't we take a
look at what it actually
So you saw some of this in
the-- I'm my own demo boy,
by the way.
You saw some of this in--
which machine am I on?
This one?
This one.
Oh, there we go.
All right.
So you saw some of this
in the HIToolbox session.
I'm just going to show you
again because I'm that way.
So basically,
I'm going to edit mode here,
and we have this crazy little control.
And what we want to do is--
[Transcript missing]
What we want to do is just have
this thing bind to this parent,
let's say.
So we can just bind our
right to the parent's right,
and as we move, the thing moves with it.
We can also bind the left
to the parent's left,
and as we move, it moves automatically.
And now the things are
kind of stuck to the edges.
Great thing about the way we have done
the layout stuff is that you don't
really-- it doesn't matter where it is.
The bindings just work.
So you can just move stuff around,
and the bindings just work.
It's automatic.
You don't have to think about it.
Of course,
there are other things you can do.
I could take this view and
instead of binding it this way,
I could instead just bind it to,
once again, 0.5.
[Transcript missing]
Last option that we mentioned
was aligning to some other view.
So I have B and I have A.
See, we knew that was going to happen.
Haha!
You can't stop me.
Oh!
Alright!
We really knew that that
was going to happen.
Oh, yeah.
You can't stop HIToolbox.
All right.
We're from the Department of
Redundancy department.
So do we really have everything here?
Why is that not an app?
Or a folder?
Is this a folder?
[Transcript missing]
All right, well, you have fun with that.
I had the best demo ever,
but you'll never see it now.
Of course,
now I'm building up your expectations.
and the Crack team, yes,
they do smoke crack, are up there.
We'll move on.
All right.
How do you use HIView?
Now we'll have one big demo at the end.
How do you use this stuff,
now that you saw how great it was?
It's easy.
First thing you want to do is turn
on the compositing mode of a window.
As I mentioned,
we have this compositing mode,
which we draw.
We draw back to front, no erase behind.
It's really great.
So the way you turn it on is to basically
specify kWindowCompositingAttribute
at creation time of your window.
This means you do have to call something
like createNewWindow to make that happen.
Or you can just use a nib,
check the checkbox.
There's a checkbox for this.
And it's just magic.
We also say use the
standard window handler.
You don't absolutely have to,
but you'd be crazy not to,
because it just does
so much stuff for you,
honestly.
You know,
there are people who come to us and say,
"Oh, I'm not using the
standard window handler.
How do I do this?
How do I do that?" And then
we start to realize,
man, we do a lot of stuff for people.
So really, if you're going to call -- if
you're going to use composite mode,
we really recommend you use
the standard window handler.
They're a match made in heaven.
So we've always supported like
a control hierarchy on Mac OS X.
But when composited mode is on,
it's a little different.
It's actually a bit deeper.
In the past, we've had this concept
of the root control,
and the root control essentially
represented your Windows content area.
But in HIView,
the root is actually the structure.
So that means that all of the window
widgets that you see in Mac OS X,
Jaguar, Panther, they're all controls,
just like anything else.
They never were before that release.
It was always just an illusion.
So we've done a lot of work to
really make all that stuff work.
So now you have this concept where we
used to have this old root control,
which is really the content,
and now you have this new root control,
which is really the structure.
So it's important to keep that
in mind when you're in this mode.
: What happens to something like
create root control is that if you
call it in the composite window,
you will get an error.
It will tell you the root already exists.
Now,
If you call getRootControl,
what you'll get is the
content view of the window.
And this is to allow you to have
code that's compatible with the past.
And you might have called getRootControl
and then embed control on that.
That code will still
continue to work as expected.
If you want the real root,
you call HIView.getRoot
and pass the window ref.
So, if you look at the two calls there,
they're equivalent.
GetRootControl and
HIViewFindById using a control ID,
in this case, khiviewWindowContentId,
which is defined in HIView.h,
both of these calls will
yield the exact same call.
Both work.
The second is technically more correct.
In the simplest of all worlds,
you'd have a window that used all toolbox
controls and all would be blissful.
And in that case,
all you have to do is go in and
turn on the compositing attribute
and things would just work.
I mean, really,
it's just that transparent to you.
However,
there are some things that your code
might be doing which might change.
It depends on how far you go.
So, for example, if you're calling set
and get control bounds,
These are actually frame coordinates
when you're in composite mode,
despite the name bounds.
So it's important to keep that in mind.
Get and set control bounds,
frame coordinates, and composite mode.
So you have to look at everywhere
you're using that for a specific window
that you might be dealing with and say,
all right,
am I dealing with moving or resizing?
Then I should probably use
HIView set frame or get frame.
Am I dealing with drawing, hit testing,
or anything that's more local?
I should use HIView get bounds.
And you can convert points from
bound space or from view to view
by using HIView Convert Point,
Rect, and Even Region.
Another common problem that we
find is that you take some existing
code with some existing controls,
with some existing bounds,
and you just embed them.
And then half your stuff went away.
And you're wondering where it is.
Well, it's probably living way
down below the bottom of your
window and you can't see it.
And it's been clipped out by its parent.
And yes, we do clip to parent
in HIView all the time.
There's no sometimes anymore.
So this is caused by using basically
the wrong coordinate system.
You're using port coordinates everywhere,
and you're trying to now embed
that all in an HIView space where,
again, they're parent-relative.
So if you had a group box
and a push button in it,
which was supposed to be 20 pixels down,
you might find that it's way
down now just because you're
in the wrong coordinate system.
So these are things to keep in mind.
Some more do's and don'ts.
If you ever called draw one
control or update control,
in general, don't.
Instead,
just use hiv_set_needs_display if
you really need to re-draw something.
Though in general,
you probably won't need to
do this because it'll be your
custom views or things like that
that will invalidate themselves.
I would say you almost never need to
do that from an external point of view.
If you absolutely need
to draw immediately,
you can use hiv_render on Panther.
Technically,
you could use draw one control on Jaguar.
But again, we're really trying to
emphasize the invalidation model
over the direct draw model.
So really try to focus on that.
And only use direct drawing
if you absolutely have to.
Because in truth, if you're going to use
something like hiv_render,
you're essentially rendering all the
layers in the composite layer for
the region that you're interested in.
So it can be a little pricey.
So you don't want to draw as
much as maybe you used to.
Let it happen at event loop time.
Where everything can be aggregated and
we have a better performance overall.
If you ever called
Draw Control in current port,
just don't.
It doesn't work in composited mode.
It just ain't gonna happen.
So what you want to do instead is
if--you might be able to use something
like HIView Create Offscreen Image.
This is an API that allows you to just
take any control in your hierarchy and
just create a CG image ref from it.
And now you have a perfect image of that.
You might be able to use that for
some of the cases that you were using
Draw Control in current port for.
And lastly,
if you've ever called Auto-Embed Control,
it just isn't going to work as expected.
This was invented for the Dialog Manager,
where we had a flattened little list,
and we didn't really have a hierarchy.
We were trying to build one
from that flattened list.
So we kind of had to figure out
where things went and automatically
embed things in one another.
And it also assumes they're all important
coordinates and all these other things.
It just isn't really going to
work at all in composited mode.
So just use, you know,
HIView at Subview or even
Embed Control directly.
You might be asking yourself,
I have a dialogue manager dialogue.
How do I make it support HIView?
The answer?
Use a nib.
Yeah, good answer, huh?
I mean,
I don't really have a good answer.
This is the answer.
You should switch to using nibs
because basically they're a lot
better than the dialogue manager.
You don't have to worry
about Pascal strings.
I mean, everything's Unicode savvy.
It's a lot more localizable.
Plus you don't have to deal with
all of the -- you can only deal
with a certain subset of controls,
and when you can't deal with those,
then you need to create CNTL resources,
and then you have to
put a PROC ID in there.
And what does the value
in a max mean again?
I don't remember for
this specific control.
It's really just a big mess.
So with the advent of
nibs and Carbon events,
even at the beginning of Mac OS X,
we said dialogue manager, you know,
start moving away from it.
And we're still saying that,
especially in the context of HIView.
So now we're going to talk about
how you can write your own views.
Essentially, every view you do,
or any constant content that you have,
has to be wrapped in an HIView.
It's the law.
And the reason is we want to
have a consistent behavior.
We want to have one draw pipeline,
you know, and everything goes through
the same bottleneck.
This is important,
or else you can't do things
like overlapping views,
because you could have people
stomping on one another.
It has to be all through
the same pipeline.
So let's talk about how you write one.
It's basically like you'd do
anything else that's HIObject-based.
You register your view class
via the HIObject mechanism,
so HIView, HIObject register subclass.
And you can subclass HIView or one of
our existing controls as of Panther.
In Jaguar, you couldn't really do that.
We didn't export the class IDs.
In Panther, we do export the class IDs.
And don't go getting fancy trying
to use those class IDs on Jaguar.
They might not work because
we actually twiddled the names
between those two releases.
So Panther forward,
you can actually subclass
existing controls.
And then all you have to do is just
create your view which HIObject create.
And you pass an event
handler into your register.
So once you create your object,
then you're up and running.
And then what you need to do is
just handle the Carbon events.
Pretty easy.
Let's first talk about the draw event.
Chances are, if you're running an HIView,
you want to draw.
So we send you a Carbon event
so you can do that.
K event control draw.
It takes two parameters,
or it receives two parameters.
The first is a context ref.
This is where you draw your bits.
You should always draw
in this context ref.
Do not create a context of your own.
This will be important as we move toward
being able to print the view system,
which, honestly,
we're not too far away from,
but it won't make Panther.
The second parameter we
give you is a draw region.
You are actually clipped to this region.
So once your draw handler is called,
clipping is set up,
and so is the G-state.
We save G-state for you.
You can draw like crazy, transform,
rotate, do all types of crazy stuff,
and leave the G-state trash.
We're going to restore it
right after the draw event,
so it doesn't matter.
And actually it would be faster
overall if you don't save and
restart a G-state yourself.
The other thing about the draw region
that's important is you might want to
use this if you have a complex control.
I mentioned earlier that
you might want to use HIView
set-needs-display-in-region.
If you use that to just invalidate
a portion of your control,
when you get called back,
you might be called back to just
redraw that portion of the control,
and that will be reflected
in your draw region.
So you can use that region to kind
of intersect it with the parts of
your control and just draw the pieces
of your control that intersect that.
Next, we want to talk about
calculating regions.
We have a Carbon event for that.
K event control get region.
In general, there are two regions
that we really care about:
structure and opaque region.
There's a new one in Panther called
the clickable region.
This actually gets used for
things like async dragging,
especially on metal windows where you
want to be able to click through things,
like text and other things like that.
Regions are always in
HIView bounds coordinates,
never in frame coordinates.
Structure region is essentially
where you're going to draw,
and it can extend outside your bounds.
That's okay.
It's a little weird to some, I agree,
but it's kind of the way
things have always been.
And it's also convenient in a way,
because we can do things like focus
rings and have adornments that draw
outside of the natural view bounds.
And this can be helpful,
because then the metrics of
the actual view don't change,
even though we might change the
metrics of how we adorn things.
So, for example, as the edit text field
gets and releases focus,
you might want to extend outside
and then contract back in.
If you don't respond to this event,
we will assume that your structure
region is just your bounds.
That's fine.
You don't need to respond
to the getRegion event.
But if you do need to do
things like focus rings and
you are changing your shape,
that might happen like at setFocusTime.
So we'll call you with a setFocusPart
event and you'll maybe say,
"Alright, I'm focused now.
I know I'm going to be bigger,
so I'm going to call HIView reshape
structure." And that just tells us,
"Oh, something's changed.
We need to re-query your structure
region and re-compute and
re-invalidate everything." And we
just do it automatically for you.
And there's the API.
Very easy to call at
the bottom of the slide.
The opaque region is used to help
us determine what's basically
visible below you in the hierarchy,
so what's behind you.
This is used to help us optimize drawing.
And also is used to determine
what the window's opaque region.
Basically, we take the aggregate of
all of the opaque regions of
all the views in the window,
and we just kind of ship that off to
the Windows server so that it knows,
all right,
these regions of the window are opaque,
and I can use that information
to maybe do fast splitting for
that section of the window.
And I know that nothing can show through.
If you don't handle our
request to give us this region,
we will assume you are transparent.
That does not mean you do not draw.
That just means that you
might have holes in yourself,
or maybe sometimes you are transparent,
or you're small enough
that it doesn't matter.
In general, if you have an opaque region,
in general, you should make views opaque
that are rather large.
Smaller views being opaque actually
chop up the views behind it,
and that makes for a
very complex clip region.
And what happens oftentimes is that it
ends up being more expensive to draw
with the clip than without the clip.
So unless you have a really big region,
I mean a big view that's going
to span most of the window,
you might not want to do this.
But we will use it, and we will know,
all right, we don't need to draw the
metal background of the window.
Metal's very expensive to render.
So if you have a data
browser or something that's
spanning it that you wrote,
we know that we don't have to draw
that metal behind that big area,
and that saves some time.
If your opaque region changes on the fly,
and it can, you can call either
HIView Reshape Structure,
which is available in Jaguar,
or in Panther,
you can call a newer API called
HIView Region Change.
It's a much more specific API.
You're going to tell us,
"My opaque region changed." And we'll go,
"Okay." And we'll recompute everything,
and we'll know that next event loop time,
we're going to readjust the
opaque region of the window.
But that API won't invalidate.
So you can do, like, multiple things,
including HIView Region Change,
and then maybe invalidate
yourself if you really need to.
One thing about regions is
that you generally want to be
square for maximum performance.
The squarer the better.
And how can you be more
square than square?
The idea here is you want to
use Alpha to define complex
regions and not a complex region.
It's much easier, and the graphic system
is designed this way.
So really take advantage of
Alpha and just use square regions.
Every window that we have has
a square structure region.
We don't use complex shapes anymore.
We just use Alpha to
punch out the corners.
It's much easier, too.
But, you know,
for hit testing and things like that,
if you have a view that is essentially
a circle in the corners where
you would normally punch through,
you might want a click region
that just represents a circle.
In those cases,
it's perfectly fine to have a complex
region to describe that because,
you know,
hit testing that view happens much less
frequently than re-rendering that view.
I want to touch on control features.
For a long time,
we've had this concept of features,
ever since Apparence 1.0.
Ultimately,
what they do is they advertise
the abilities of a view.
So, for example, you would tell us, "Oh,
I support embedding.
I have, uh,
I want focus on click," things like that.
And we have some new features that
we're introducing in Panther as well,
like the isOpaque bit,
which I'm going to cover in a little bit.
On Jaguar and Prior,
The only way to specify these features
was at K event control initialize time.
We would send you this thing.
This is kind of like the analogous,
the Carbon event that's analogous
to the old control init event or
message from the Defproc days.
And in response to this initialize event,
you're expected to give us your features,
and then we would hold onto that,
and they were immutable.
These days in Panther, that's changed.
You can change your features on the fly.
You can say, "I'm going to better." No,
I'm not.
Yes, I am.
So you can write your
own schizophrenic views.
And the other thing that
you can do is -- I mean,
this comes in really handy, because,
yeah, you might want to say,
"I'm opaque now," or, "I'm not opaque.
I want clicks to go through me.
Wait, no, I don't." And we use this,
for example -- consider a document
So, you have a document window,
and the content region is opaque,
and clicks hit it.
Okay?
It's like a solid, you know, thing.
When you specify the metal attribute,
do you see that area anymore?
No.
And that's because we actually
take--it doesn't go away.
It's still there.
But now we make it transparent.
It's no longer opaque.
And we allow clicks to go through.
And we do that on the
fly via this mechanism.
So three interesting features that I want
to touch on for various reasons are,
number one,
KHIView is opaque.
This marks your entire view is opaque.
And this is just kind of a clue to us
so that we don't have to ask you for it.
I mean,
asking you for the region basically
involves us creating a Carbon event,
stuffing some parameters in,
sending it off to you,
getting back the result, and then, "Oh,
hey, a region.
Great." But if you know that your
entire bounds are opaque or your
entire structure region is opaque,
just tell us that via the feature bit,
and we save some time.
Likewise, KHIView ignores clicks.
As I mentioned,
we have this clickable region.
This allows you to now specify that area
of your control where you accept clicks.
Anything that -- any point that
might hit outside that region will
go through to views behind you.
This was never the case before.
But if you know that
none of me is clickable,
you can specify khiview ignores clicks.
And again, like the opaque region,
we won't ask you.
So like our text control specifies
this rather than handling the event.
The last one is KHIViewDoesNotDraw.
Now,
I did say before that chances are you
have a view and it wants it to draw.
The answer is, well, sometimes.
You might have a view that's
just a container view,
and it doesn't draw.
It's not supposed to respond to clicks.
It's just there to group other items so
that you can operate on them as a unit.
So the combination of things like
ignores clicks and does not draw
allows you to accomplish that.
And that's That's exactly what
our content view does when
it goes on to a metal window.
and we also save work because we know,
oh, you don't draw.
So, hmm, I don't have to actually
call you to draw anymore,
and I don't have to set up a G-state
for you or any of that sort of thing.
And we also know that we can be
more efficient when we move you.
Normally, when we move your view,
we're going to invalidate the
old area and the new area.
With this, we say, "Oh, hey, wait,
you don't draw,
so I'm just going to invalidate
the areas that your subviews are,
which might be a lot smaller,
so we can make things
more efficient that way."
Can we do code in the demo?
I'm getting the thumbs up.
All right.
Will anything explode?
Everything looks good there?
Swear to God, hope to die,
stick an Italy in your eye?
Yeah, we're good.
Alright, I won't go through Rebounder,
but I did want to go through some of
the other things that I was unable
to go through a little earlier.
The first is this little app.
I think I showed this last year.
But basically, what it is is just proof
that I'm not lying to you,
and indeed,
the hierarchy of a window is deeper.
So what we're looking at here
is the representation of the
hierarchy of that window that the
chasing arrows is running in there.
So basically we have
our window frame here.
Stop that.
All
From there we have the window title,
and you'll notice that they'll
highlight as I go through them.
We have the grow box,
which you can't see right now.
And then we have the
window buttons up there.
They're all real views.
What does that mean?
Well, it means that I could just
take it and put it right here.
Maybe I want it bigger.
You know what the best part is?
It still works.
So that, I mean, this is pretty cool.
So now, you know, everything's a view.
And you can do really
cool stuff with that.
But basically, you know,
realize that we do have, you know,
a deeper hierarchy now,
and there are diff--you know,
the old get root control does
not mean the real root anymore.
That's the important thing
to take away from that.
The other thing I wanted to show
was something we also showed last
year about some of the things
that we do with views these days.
There are some views that
are compositing only.
One of them is ImageView,
the other is ScrollView.
One of them is TextView.
ImageView we may try to make work
in composite and non-composite,
but some of them are a little more
complex than that and are... the
problem's a little harder to solve.
So...
Here's our image view.
It's pretty exciting.
Look, an image.
Okay.
Well, that was fun.
All right, so now ScrollView.
ScrollView is a little more interesting
because it manages all the stuff you
need to deal with with scroll bars,
including things like auto-hiding the
scroll bars when the image is full-size.
So we take care of all of that for you,
and we supply this protocol called
the K-event -- what is it called?
K-event scrollable protocol,
and you just handle a Carbon event,
a couple of Carbon events
that you will ask,
like, a target view for.
How big are you?
What's the available view size?
What's your line height?
Things like that,
so that the ScrollView knows
how to operate on it.
We highly recommend that people
use the ScrollView because then
as we make changes to the way
things scroll in the interface,
everybody will get that stuff for free,
rather than everybody rolling their own.
One thing I just want to demonstrate
just for grins is that --
Last year I had a BMW roundel in
here and I got in trouble for that,
but anyways,
I won't get in trouble this year.
Or maybe I will.
Alright, so...
The cool thing about this really is
that that view is composited at the
same-- it's a sibling of the scroll view.
And you notice that it's actually
drawing over the scroll view,
in fact, over the scroll bars,
and that it even composites fine.
And I get great performance out of this.
So it's really fast.
That is one of the things you
want to take away from this.
HIView is fast.
We've really optimized it,
especially in Panther.
Now let's look at some of
the problems that can happen.
Do we have Xcode?
Yes, we do.
So here's a little...
We call character edit,
which apparently is building right now.
And while it builds,
I'll just tell you that what it is,
it's a visual description of
what is wrong with the past,
okay,
and how the future is pretty bright.
Eventually it will build.
Okay, I gotta keep talking.
Did I mention that HIView was fast?
Yes.
But, you know, more importantly,
in the past there were these
problems with drawing order.
Drawing order was always
different than click order.
And we're going to actually see an
example of this in about ten years.
Linking, all right.
All right, so here it is.
So we see Guy here.
But I can't click on any of these things.
Nothing works.
And that is because in order to
get the picture visually behind
all of the other controls,
it also happens to grab the clicks first,
which really sucks.
So let's fix that.
So we're just going to
run Interface Builder.
And here is the window.
And if I select the window
and turn on compositing,
Whew, that was tough.
OK.
So anyways, it works now.
And I can click, and everything's great.
Now, notice that it kind of lags,
doesn't it?
Yeah, that's not so great.
Let's fix that, too, while we're in here.
So we'll go back to the nib
and we'll look at this thing.
And what you see is that we
have a picture control in here.
Let's get rid of that.
And instead,
what we're going to do is we're
going to drag in an image view.
And we'll just stick that there.
Hopefully I'll give it the right ID.
I just want 440 by 440.
Exactly.
And now,
we just need to send this to the back,
take our user pane,
and go back into position.
Save it.
It's close enough.
And run it again.
Now, as you can see,
I indeed used the wrong ID.
So we can fix that very easily
thanks to Interface Builder.
1.
Save that.
Build.
Run.
Oh, I hate you.
Now I have to look at code.
That makes things
There's a couple of things that, yeah,
image one.
If it doesn't work, well then, oh well.
Let me just check.
It was image one.
[Transcript missing]
This guy pinged.
Oh, guy looks like Homestar Runner.
I don't know why.
There he is.
OK.
So the interesting thing
is we have this running.
But now, look at that.
It sticks right to the mouse.
Now I'm in a PowerBook so it shows it.
I was afraid I couldn't show this demo
because we're on these fast machines.
But on this PowerBook, on this nice,
slow PowerBook, I could do this.
This also happens to happen
on my machine at work.
But anyways, that's another story.
But the cool thing is that ImageView is
really optimized for HIView.
It's just much faster than
using a picture or drawing
using CGImageRef itself.
So we highly encourage you to
use ImageView wherever possible.
Now the other thing that
it didn't show is that,
hey, we've actually embedded all of
this stuff into a scroll view.
We just didn't show you that.
So that's pretty neat.
I can also scroll everything right over
the picture and you get full compositing.
Beautiful.
Everything's cool.
Alright,
so that took longer than it should have.
One of the other things I wanted
to show you was just about the
pervasiveness of the view system.
So, you know, we showed views,
and those are great.
But we also touched on,
in the toolbox session,
things about being able to draw in menus.
So let's take a look at some of those.
And this is a standard
menu views example.
It's there.
It's on the website right now.
You can download it.
You can play with it.
But in case you haven't,
let's just take a quick look.
Menus can now be driven through HIView.
You don't have to use MDEFs anymore.
"Oh, hallelujah," you're saying.
So here's a standard menu,
and that looks great, right?
But now you can do cool things like
have pictures in the background.
You can have custom views like this.
I mean, this is basically the basis for
what the Finder ended up using.
Just a simple custom menu with some text,
color grid, all types of neat stuff.
And the coolest of all,
the volume control, right?
So here we have a menu that
just has other views in it.
And yes,
it actually kind of sort of works.
And in fact, I found out earlier that if
I click the Press button,
It actually opens up the sound panel.
So that's cool.
So you can use these things anywhere.
Now, that was views, menus.
What about windows?
Well, we can show you a window.
There you go.
That is a completely custom view
written completely in HIView
with controls embedded within it.
I wrote this last night.
It only took me about--
I won't even tell you.
Anyways, but here's the other thing.
This is that same view
embedded in a window.
It's the same view.
And whenever you would
click on this view,
I have a handler in there
so that when I get clicked,
I call drag window.
So if I click in this view,
So it just kind of works.
But the important thing
is it's just a view.
You can be deployed
anywhere and in any way.
And you learn that one model,
deploy everywhere.
OK.
I just launched the wrong thing?
Don't open.
Yes, OK.
I mean, I didn't speak that high.
Okay, one of the things I want to show
you about at this point-- See,
that was the before demo.
Now it's the now demo.
What I wanted to do was go through
some code here to exactly show you
the steps involved in building a view.
So we're going to use the
simplest case right here,
which is called HITestView.
This is part of the sample code.
It's on the website.
It's even on all builds of
Panther and the developer tool stuff.
I'm just going to have some fun font
stuff here so you guys can all see.
I'm just going to increase this
to... Can I click it again?
Of course.
Now hopefully you'll be able to
read this from way back there.
Basically,
I mentioned that what you want to do
is you want to register your class,
and then you want to create your view,
and then you want to handle events.
So we're just going to show
you an example of exactly
how to do that in real code.
So first we have our register function.
And this is kind of a one-shot function.
You know, you register once.
You can call it ten times.
We're only going to register once.
And what we do is we set up a list
of events that we want to handle.
Now, this is an HIObject,
like all UI objects in the HIToolbox.
So we have to respond to at
least two of these events,
construct and destruct technically,
but we're also listening to initialize,
just for grins in this case.
So we have our HIObject protocol.
I won't go too much into that.
But these are the important ones.
Here's where we're actually handling
everything that has to do with controls.
So whenever you create an
instance of this class,
that handler, this handler right here,
is installed automatically,
and all your event handling
is set up automatically.
And I'm going to say
automatically all the time.
So we have activate, deactivate,
highlight changed,
and value field changed.
The only reason we're handling those
is so that we can call invalidate.
All right.
HIView set needs to be set up.
display.
As I mentioned,
you need to do that yourself,
so you're going to have to handle
these events if you want to actually
get redrawn when these things happen.
But of course, it depends on your view,
what you're doing, et cetera.
Below here, we end up calling
HIObjectRegister subclass.
So we just pass our class ID,
which is just a string,
and we're subclassing the
standard HIView base class.
We're installing HITestViewHandler,
which is just below in the bottom there.
And we're just installing it
for all the events that we saw.
Now, once we've registered that,
you can create the view.
And we have a function to do
that called HITestViewCreate.
And first thing it does is just
register the subclass just in case
it hasn't been registered already.
Next thing it does is we
create an initialized event,
and I think what we do
If you pass in bounds,
we will set the bounds
into that initialize event.
This is a way for you to get
initialization parameters into your view
so that you can do interesting things.
And then all we do is
we call HIObject create.
And bang, you get created,
your construct handler is called,
you build whatever
instance data you want,
you give it back to us,
standard HIObject stuff.
If you don't know a lot about HIObject,
I urge you to read documentation
that's on the website.
I also wrote something for
Mac Tech last year or something,
end of last year,
which goes through this in, you know,
insane detail.
So you might want to check
either one of those things out.
And then if we get one,
we'll actually embed it into the window.
You don't need to pass a window
to most of the HIView APIs.
Well, actually,
most of the HIView APIs don't
take a window ref at all.
And all of the older APIs,
like create push button control
and all of those things,
have been modified to accept
null as the window parameter.
You don't have to bind it to a window.
You can have detached
views in the HIView system.
So once we've created this thing,
we're going to start getting events,
and we're going to get them
through our handler right there.
So first we're handling events of K event
class HIObjects to just construct,
initialize,
And then we handle the control events.
So we get told to draw, we draw.
We get told to do hit testing,
we do hit testing.
Tracking, we do tracking.
And here are those other
events that I mentioned.
So when any one of these things happen,
we call HITestViewChanged,
which ends up taking us here.
And all we do is call
HIView setNeedDisplay,
passing true, meaning yes, please.
and we'll get invalidated and
redrawn in the next draw cycle.
We also have a get data set data.
It's just here mostly for example.
And get region,
which is also only here for example.
Take a look at some of these.
I'm going to skip construct and destruct,
that's standard stuff.
If you really want to know about it,
just look more in the example.
Initialize.
We get the bounds out that we
had passed in the create thing.
We set our bounds in here
using HIView set frame.
OK, drawing.
First thing we do when we're going
to draw is we get the context.
The context is only sent in
the composited mode right now.
So we get that context,
and again we've been transformed.
Top left is 0, 0,
and we're clipped accordingly.
And what this does is we call it Red Box,
Blue Box.
So it's a red box until you click on it.
Then it's a blue box.
It's wild.
So it's just a simple example to
show how you can do this and how you
can tap into the standard tracking
that exists in the Control Manager.
So, you know,
if we're just sitting there,
nothing's going on, we're red,
we get clicked, we're blue.
And we also listen to
these two part codes.
So we get our highlight, essentially,
and we decide how to draw.
If that is zero,
we know we're in a standard state.
If it is the inactive
part or disabled part,
we can draw in the disabled state.
An even better way to do that is to
actually check to see-- which is to call
is control active or is control enabled.
In general, we don't like to overload
the part codes these days.
And if it's any other
part code that's non-zero,
we'll assume that we've been
clicked and we draw blue.
Okay, hit testing.
In the hit test scenario,
what we do is we just
extract the mouse location,
we test to see whether that
point is in our bounds,
and then we just give back
the correct part code.
If it's in our bounds,
we return a part code of one.
The part code space is your space.
You can return anything you want.
The only thing you need to keep in mind
is that if you pass zero back to us,
we will assume you don't
want to track at all,
and maybe that's what you want.
Maybe it's not what you want,
but just be aware of that.
Technically, from a technical,
pure standpoint,
you don't have to even check your
bounds because we wouldn't have
asked you in the first place unless
somebody was calling just something
like the old test control API.
You might get called that way.
But again, for proper checking,
you might want to at
least check your bounds.
So if the click is in us, we're hit.
If it's not, we're not hit.
And we report the answer back.
And again,
that answer ties into the standard
tracking loop in the toolbox.
The minute we click on a view,
we'll ask it, was there a part hit?
Oh, yes, it's part one.
Okay.
Start tracking that part.
And then we'll do
standard tracking for you.
And as we track in and
out of your control,
we will set the highlight,
and that's how you draw.
You can also do custom tracking.
I don't think that this specific
example is set up to do it right now,
but
Instead of having the
toolbox do the tracking,
you can do it.
There's even another level
of tracking beyond this,
which, the minute the click gets to you,
you can do whatever you want.
Once you get into just kind of
like two levels of tracking,
I think we explained it in
the Carbon events .h header.
But basically,
you can do anything you want.
In this case, we're doing basically
what the toolbox does.
You know, we're just saying, "Oh,
were we inside when we started?
Well, we probably were."
And then as you move out,
we set our variable.
You've probably all written this loop.
But the point is you can write
it yourself if you want to.
You don't have to use
the tool box and stuff.
And that's the great part
about Carbon Events and the
way it ties into HIView.
You can override just
about anything you want.
Again, test view change, we invalidate,
we already saw that.
Get data, set data,
I'm not going to go into those.
Not very exciting.
Get region.
That's something I want to talk about.
This is the get region handler.
And we extract the part
code and a region handle.
And basically, based on the part code,
we want to manage that region handle.
It's important that if you get a part
code that you have no idea what it is,
return event not handled error.
You may trip us up.
We did experience a couple of
applications that were not doing so,
and they were giving us empty regions,
and crazy things started to happen.
So we had to implement
workarounds in the toolbox.
In general,
we try to avoid doing that because there
is a performance penalty in that regard.
So really try to be correct in
how you handle these things.
In this case,
all we're going to do is if we get the
content or the structure meta part,
we're just going to return our bounds.
Like I said earlier,
you don't have to do this.
If it's just going to be your bounds,
don't even handle it.
That's even simpler.
But it's just a simple
example of what you would do.
So we just get our bounds.
We convert it into a quick draw rectangle
because we need to call rect region.
As I said before,
we're trying to move toward these
new shape riffs that we have.
We kind of introduced them.
introduces a bad word because
you couldn't use them,
but we put them in Jaguar,
but you couldn't use them.
We're starting to use them
now in the HITHeme API,
so you'll see HISHapeRefs used there.
Okay, so if we were to run this,
you see a very exciting application.
Red, blue, red, blue, red, blue, red,
blue, huh?
Okay, so that's cool.
Now you notice there's one next to it,
and that's what I want to cover next.
That's okay.
All right.
C++.
Everybody's friend.
Everybody's enemy.
But here it is.
We like C++ on the toolbox.
We use it internally.
All of our stuff follows this thing.
We have HIView internally.
It's a C++ class, and we just export it
through this HIObject layer.
Well, what we also did when we were
writing these sample codes is we
came up with this TView class,
which is kind of a mirror
of our HIView class,
only it's a little more generic.
So what we do have is
this thing called...
I wonder if it's in a nice-- oh,
there it is.
Beautiful.
We have this thing called HIFramework.
There's a series of classes which
allow you to write views really,
really easily.
And that's how I wrote even that sample
app with Homestar Runner and all that.
Very easy to write this stuff.
It's part of all of our sample code.
All of our sample code relies on it.
We urge you to look at it.
It may grow into something bigger.
We're not sure right now.
The important thing is you might
be able to use it directly,
you might not.
If you can use it directly, great.
If you can't,
you might at least be able to borrow
the ideas and the implementation
strategies that we put in them and try
to merge those into your own framework.
So we really urge you to look at it
because we figure that most people are
actually programming in C++ these days.
So we won't go too much into that.
Suffice it to say that we
have this ttestview that
derives from our tview class.
We can see just exactly the same
basic control that we just looked at,
only in C++.
So these lines are interesting.
I mentioned that if you change
some aspect of your view,
So, in this case,
all we need to do is just say
on highlight and on activate,
we want to be auto-invalidated.
We also do this internally
in our HIView class,
and it's so helpful that we may end up
exporting it as a real API in the future.
But basically, this code's a lot simpler.
And you can actually look
at the guts of the code.
So like, create is just register class,
create, and then embed,
just like you saw in the earlier example.
Register class is even simpler,
because basically, tview, or ultimately,
tobject, which tview derives from,
just takes care of it for you.
So you just give it your class ID,
and give it your construct proc.
And Construct is like a
static proc on your class.
It gets called whenever
HIObjectCreator is called,
and all we do is create a new
instance of ourselves and return it.
Very easy.
Draw is pretty much the same code,
only we don't have to do
all the CarbonEvent stuff.
That's the beauty of using the C++ stuff,
is that all the CarbonEvent
mechanism is taken away,
and you can just worry
about what you're doing.
Hit test is simpler.
We don't have to deal with
taking the part out-- I mean,
taking the point out
and returning the part.
It's just a method call
like anything else.
And get region is simpler, a lot simpler.
So we urge you to look
at stuff like tview.
Unfortunately, I'm running short on time,
so I'm going to cut back to slides.
Okay, I want to talk briefly
about performance tips.
First off, as I mentioned,
try to invalidate only those portions
of your view that need to be redrawn.
If you have a small view,
you can probably just
invalidate the whole thing.
It's not going to be a big deal.
But if you have a really complex view,
a table view,
or some type of spreadsheet stuff
where only cells are changing,
you might want to just
invalidate those portions.
Obey the incoming limit region,
that draw region that
I mentioned in your draw handler,
if you do have a complex control,
to limit the area that you draw.
This makes a huge difference in
the performance of your views.
If you're moving or resizing views,
the best, best solution in
Panther is to use layouts.
The next best solution is to watch
ContentView BounceChanged events,
not WindowBounceChanged events.
Turns out that WindowBounceChanged
events come too late.
The way the window mechanics are
is that when you resize a window,
we reshape the whole frame view,
which reflows all of the
window widgets and the like,
and then we paint it.
Then, after that, you get called with a
window-bounce-changed event,
and then you go, "Oh,
I have to reflow," and then
you move everything around,
and then we paint it.
So just by listening to
window-bounce -- I mean,
the content view-bounce-changed,
as opposed to window-bounce-changed,
makes a big difference in
your live resize speed.
You will definitely get a few
frames per second in that.
And the best solution,
as I mentioned on Panther,
is to just use layouts,
because then you don't even
have to worry about that stuff.
I should go back and just--
and those feature bits that
I mentioned that help us to avoid
having to call you for reasons,
make sure you set them as appropriate.
So, in summary, I want you to know that
HIView is our focus,
and we're really concentrating all our
efforts on making it perform great.
And it's changed our world, seriously.
Writing things like the
sidebar in Nav just took days.
I mean, it's just, it's amazingly quick.
You know, I can write demos in hours.
No, that's what's, that's what's, no,
that's not a good example.
But, seriously,
we've been able to just tear
through views these days.
I mean, the amount of work that we
can get done is amazing.
And I guarantee you that if
you start to use this stuff,
you will realize that, oh my god,
this really is different.
And you can throw away a lot
of code in your application.
I kid you not.
So, and at the same time that
it makes everything better,
it's still familiar to you.
It's still an extension
of the control manager,
okay?
And it's still, you know,
it's kind of like it's still home.
And that was funny.
I was serious.
So, yeah, and as I mentioned,
it's pervasive, so you don't have to have
all of these different,
you know, MDEFs, CDEFs, WDEFs,
just views, and you're done.
And above all,
when we make changes to the
renderer and the compositing stuff,
you'll all benefit from that.
So we're all going to share in
this HIView adventure or so.
And as I mentioned, it's very fast.
This is a fast view system.
It is not the control manager.
Trust me.